So here it is – super easy to make GF/Vegan.
Binder – heat up in a pan until it starts to bubble, make sure you stir it consistently or it can burn/caramelize.
1 Cup sweetener (Agave Nectar, Honey, Maple Syrup, Brown Rice Syrup, or the ‘financially efficient way’ with Corn Syrup)
1/2 Cup Nut Butter (Almond, Peanut, Cashew, etc)

Dry Ingredients:
2 C Rolled Oats – not quick oats
2 C Cereal – I love Mesa Sunrise Cereal (GF) by Nature’s Pride Organics
1/2 to 1 C of whatever mix-ins you desire (Raisins, Craisins, other dried fruit, Sunflower Seeds, Nuts, Chocolate Chips)
Salt for taste, if desired (or extra sodium if you sweat as heavy as I do)

Mix Dry Ingredients in a large bowl until evenly distributed…once that binder goes in the mixing isn’t nearly as easy. Pour the hot binder over the dry ingredients and mix until everything is soaked up. Always, always (!!!) taste the ‘batter’: A) It’s yummy and B) you can fine tune the mix-ins or add more binder before finishing. Once it’s glorious, press into a 13×9 or large pan so it is 1 inch thick. It doesn’t matter if you don’t fill the whole pan, it’s gooey enough that it won’t spread once you form it. Toss it in the fridge for 30mins to solidify the binder and you have a glorious set of homemade bars for cycling or snack. I hope once I get my food processor back up and running I’ll be able to get some dates finely ground up (a big part of PROBARs) and toss those in to top it off.

EDIT For Advanced Progress of bars, inspired but oncoming summer and warmer temperatures (3/10/2013): Recently I’ve been trialing these bars in a better “heat-friendly” form. I bake these on 350F for 10-15mins, just until the edges very slightly brown. You want the heat to bind them more strongly, but not make them brittle. There is a fine line here…especially when I start posting amended recipes where I reduce fat content in the bars. I botched a batch last week, and the were brittle enough that eating them with one hand while riding was doable but difficult – bumps knocked pieces loose :(…which is not fun when a piece could be 50-100kcal!!